So this is your first test seam stitched
Normally seams are pressed open from the wrong
side
We have created a nice flat seam from the
right side
We will neaten the raw edge to stop it fraying
As for the darts, we tie off the ends with
a simple knot
I use a pin or needle to position the knot
close to the dart point
A second knot to be safe
Cut the threads with a bit of a tail
We'll say this is the Centre Front
Waist darts are normally pressed towards the
centre
Press up to the dart point and no further
Then press the area beyond the dart
We have created the shaping
Bust darts are normally pressed downwards
Again press up to the point and then press
from the other direction
So to neaten our straight seam edges
we use a zigzag stitch on its widest setting
on a standard machine
Line the raw edge up with the centre of the
foot
I'm using a standard stitch length but you
can lengthen it if you like
Keeping the edge in the centre of the foot
allows the stitch to wrap the edge rather
like an overlocker
We don't want the edge to roll as this will
result in a bumpy ridge
that will show when the seam is pressed
This simple rule will make all the difference
to the finish
A nice flat edge
This seam allowance won't fray however many
times it goes through the wash
That is all the basic sewing you need to know
to create a wardrobe full of beautiful garments
So let's see this process for real
Here I am joining a side seam
The pieces are right sides together
Your machine will have a setting for a standard
length of stitch
and you will use this most of the time
Straight stitching will be used throughout
your garment to join pieces together
and to stitch your darts for the shaping
I am not pulling or pushing the fabric
I am just guiding and keeping the seam line
straight
Most machines have a setting to stitch at
a slow speed
This is useful if you are finding it difficult
to control the speed with the foot pedal
Here I am stitching gathering thread around
a sleeve head curve
I have to be careful not to stretch the fabric
and distort the curve
I am just guiding, not pushing or pulling
Here I am stitching a dart
Always start your stitching at the garment
edge
and sew towards the dart point
I start as always sewing in reverse for a
few stitches
I take pins out as I go
Shorten your stitch length as you approach
the point and then sew straight off the edge
Leave long threads so that you can knot them
Pressing
Always press as you go
For any fabric other than cotton, I usually
use a pressing cloth
This reduces the risk of creating shine on
linens, woollens and man mades
I usually use a steam setting through a dry
piece of muslin
Waist darts on bodices, skirts and trousers
are usually pressed towards the centre
and bust darts are pressed downwards
I'm using a tailor's ham here but pressing
on a flat surface is fine
Lastly, keep your work tidy, clipping threads
as you go
Work with clean hands
Try not to over handle your work
This goes such a long way towards keeping
your project fresh
and brand new for when you get to wear it
And that's all you need to get started
This has been an introduction to Sewing for
Beginners
For Easy Classic Sewing Patterns join angelakane.com
Sewing Patterns in sizes 6 - 22
This movie has included clips from my YouTube
Videos Make a Dress, the second series
and Make a Sleeveless Top
The Make Authentic Jeans Video and Making
the Roll Collar Coat Video
are exclusive to Members of angelakane.com
The featured Pinafore Dress Pattern and the
Sleeveless Top Pattern
are both Free Downloads
The Jeans Pattern and the Roll Collar Coat
Pattern are available to Members
along with many more Sewing Patterns, Tutorials
and Sewing eBooks
Please check out my site for details
You should now be ready to tackle a simple
project
Try my Sleeveless Top Pattern
a FREE PDF DOWNLOAD from my website angelakane.com
The In-depth Instructional Video is here on
YouTube
and will guide you through every stage
To keep up to date with the latest videos
please Subscribe to my YouTube Channel
ANGELA KANE Sewing TV
and if you would like to see more Free Videos
please give this one a Like
Thank you for watching